chore: threat modeling (#309)
open-feature/open-feature-operator: docs/threat_model.md

# Threat Model

Threat modeling is a structured approach of identifying and prioritizing potential threats to a system, and determining the value that potential mitigations would have in reducing or neutralizing those threats.

Using [OWASP's threat modeling cheat sheet for guidance](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Threat_Modeling_Cheat_Sheet.html).

## Application Entry Points

The interfaces through which potential attackers can interact with the application or supply them with data.
The diagram below models these interfaces, the sections that follow describe them further.

<img src="../images/ofo_threat_model.png" alt="Diagram of OFO threat model">

> ### Via the application to which OpenFeature Operator (OFO) sidecars flagd

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Via the application to which OpenFeature Operator (OFO) injects the flagd sidecar
```

> OFO appends flagd as a sidecar container to any pod spec application with valid annotations. The application is then able to evaluate flags by calling flagd (typically via an sdk and flag provider). While a caller of the application could be from a trusted entity (internal infrastructure), it is more prudent to presume the agent to be untrusted.

Reviewer: Mention the protocol.

Author: Done

### Via the Kubernetes API server

OFO listens to webhooks from the Kubernetes control plane (its API server), specifically it handles mutations of pods.
It parses the mutated pod's annotations to determine which CRD to retrieve flagd's flag configuration from, mutating flagd's internal state if necessary.

> ## Assets

Reviewer: I think user PII potentially used in evaluation is an asset that should be included here, though in this deployment it never leaves the node or is persisted. I think we should mention that.

Author: Done

### Flag source configuration custom resource (CR)

Stored in the kubernetes cluster's etcd instance, this custom resource contains the configuration for the sidecar container (`flagd`) `OFO` appends to the application pod(s).

### Flag configuration CR

> Stored in the kubernetes cluster's etcd instance, this custom resource contains the sidecar's (`flagd`) feature flags configuration. It also incorporates configuration for the sidecar container (`flagd`), although, this is deprecated and superseded by the flag source configuration CR.

Reviewer: I think I would mention the flag configuration rules might contain some identifying information or PII (thinking about targeting rules). They generally should not contain any sort of secret.

Author: Done

### Environment variables

Stored in `OFO`'s container's registry, these variables are used to configure the flag source if not declared explicitly by the flag source configuration CR or flag configuration CR.

### flagd flag configuration

`flagd`'s flag configuration is the determinant of the response to any flag request, it is stored in `flagd`'s memory.
There are numerous ways to set and maintain this state, configured by the flag configuration CR:
- Within the flag configuration CR 
- As a file

> - From a remote source

Reviewer: Maybe link back to the `Flag configuration CR`.

Author: Done

> ## Controls

Author: The OWASP cheat sheet declares that it's important to consider [data in transit](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Threat_Modeling_Cheat_Sheet.html#consider-data-in-transit-and-data-at-rest), this was my motivation behind modelling how data moves within the system via the actions laid out under the controls section.

Including the mechanisms that are protecting them is a great suggestion. I've updated the controls section to include this.

> ### External agency

Reviewer: What is meant by this? Maybe it's a term I'm unfamiliar with.

Author: I've amended it to be `External actions`/`Internal actions` to hopefully be clearer. I'm attempting to convey the difference between an action taken by an agent vs what actions OFO takes internally as a result of them. If you can think of anything more appropriate please let me know

Reviewer: No, this seems clear to me.

#### Cluster state mutation

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    user-agent --> kube-apiserver
```

> The user-agent is typically (and therefore assumed to be) internal to the intranet. They make requests to the `kubeapi-server` to mutate the state of the cluster.

Reviewer: I would add that in this case, the `user-agent` is a cluster admin or developer. `User-agent` is a good term to use, but we should also put it in simpler terms.

Author: Good shout, done

Pertinent requests are
1. Mutation of pods, this fires a [webhook](#webhooks) to `OFO`.
2. Mutation of flag configuration CR, fires a [webhook](#webhooks) to `OFO` & is picked up as an event by `flagd` (if configured).

#### Feature flag request

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    user-agent --> application --> flagd
```

> The user-agent (e.g. web browser) is typically (and therefore assumed to be) external to the intranet. They make requests to the application to which `OFO` sidecars `flagd`. Internally, the application (typically) uses an `OpenFeature sdk` (dependent on the application's programming language) alongside a `flagd-provider` to make feature flag requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The user-agent (e.g. web browser) is typically (and therefore assumed to be) external to the intranet. They make requests to the application to which `OFO` sidecars `flagd`. Internally, the application (typically) uses an `OpenFeature SDK` (dependent on the application's programming language) alongside a `flagd-provider` to make feature flag requests.
```

### Internal agency

#### Webhooks

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    kube-apiserver --> OFO
```

1. As a result of [the mutation of pods](#cluster-state-mutation), `OFO` receives a request notifying it of the pod. `OFO` queries the pod's annotations to determine whether it needs to take action. If satisfactory, `OFO` further [mutates the state of the pod](#pod-mutation).
2. As a result of [the mutation of flag configuration CR](#cluster-state-mutation), `OFO` receives a request notifying it of the flag configuration CR. `OFO` asserts that the CR is valid.

#### Pod mutation

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    OFO --> kube-apiserver
```

As a result of [the mutation of pods webhook](#webhooks), `OFO` appends `flagd` to the pod's containers. `flagd` is configured based on the pod's annotated flag configuration CR.

#### flagd state configuration

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    flagd --> kube-apiserver
```

Not applicable if `flagd` is not configured to use the kubernetes sync provider.

> `flagd` makes a request to retrieve its initial flag configuration state from the CR. Subsequently, it registers an event handler to listen to changes to the CR.

Reviewer: I think we should mention the equivalent filesync provider deployment option, via mounted configMaps

Author: Done

### Via the Kubernetes API server

OFO listens to webhooks from the Kubernetes control plane (its API server), specifically it handles mutations of pods.
It parses the mutated pod's annotations to determine which CRD to retrieve flagd's flag configuration from, mutating flagd's internal state if necessary.

## Assets

### Flag source configuration custom resource (CR)

Stored in the kubernetes cluster's etcd instance, this custom resource contains the configuration for the sidecar container (`flagd`) `OFO` appends to the application pod(s).

### Flag configuration CR

Stored in the kubernetes cluster's etcd instance, this custom resource contains the sidecar's (`flagd`) feature flags configuration. It also incorporates configuration for the sidecar container (`flagd`), although, this is deprecated and superseded by the flag source configuration CR.

> The feature flags configurations may contain personally identifiable information (used in targeting rules e.g. email domain). They generally should not contain any sort of secret.

Reviewer: Perfect!

### Environment variables

Stored in `OFO`'s container's registry, these variables are used to configure the flag source if not declared explicitly by the flag source configuration CR or flag configuration CR.

### flagd flag configuration

`flagd`'s flag configuration is the determinant of the response to any flag request, it is stored in `flagd`'s memory.
There are numerous ways to set and maintain this state, configured by the [flag configuration CR](#flag-configuration-cr):
- Within the flag configuration CR (kubernetes sync provider)
- As a file (filepath provider)
- From a remote source (http provider)

### Personally identifiable information

> PII may be used in flag evaluation, this data never leaves the node or is persisted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PII may be used in flag evaluation. It is sent from the workload to flagd.
In all deployment patterns currently supported by the operator, this data never leaves the node and is never persisted.
```

# Threat Model

Threat modeling is a structured approach of identifying and prioritizing potential threats to a system, and determining the value that potential mitigations would have in reducing or neutralizing those threats.

Using [OWASP's threat modeling cheat sheet for guidance](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Threat_Modeling_Cheat_Sheet.html).

## Application Entry Points

The interfaces through which potential attackers can interact with the application or supply them with data.
The diagram below models these interfaces, the sections that follow describe them further.

<img src="../images/ofo_threat_model.png" alt="Diagram of ofo threat model">

> ### Via the application to which ofo sidecars flagd

Author: Good suggestion, thanks, done
